>> Woodruff: THE BATTLE OVER THE
COFEDERATE FLAG IN THE WAKE OF A
MASS SHOOTING, LAWMAKERS IN
SOUTH CAROLINA CALL FOR IT TO
COME DOWN, CONFRONTING A
TROUBLED HISTORY OF HATRED AND
VIOLENCE.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
>> I WANT TO STAND FOR THE
PEOPLE.
NOT FOR THE BANKS.
>> Ifill: DEADLOCK ON BADEBTD
IN GREECE, WHAT'S AT STAKE FOR A
NATION ON THE BRINK.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, HOW
CALIFORNIA FARMERS FACING
HISTORIC DROUGHT CAN GROW CROPS
FASTER AND WITH LESS WATER.
>> YOU CAN DO THEM ANYWHERE, YOU
CAN DO THEM INDOORS, OUTDOORS,
IN WAREHOUSES, ON ROOFTOPS,
EMPTY ALLEYWAYS, EMPTY PARKING
LOTS, SO ALL THE SPACE THAT'S
BEING UNDERUTILIZED IN URBAN
AREAS COULD BE TRANSFORMED
EASILY INTO AN AQUAPONICS
SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE GOVERNOR OF SOUTH
CAROLINA CALLED TODAY FOR
REMOVING THE CONFEDERATE BATTLE
FLAG FROM THE STATE CAPITOL
GROUNDS.
REPUBLAN NICIKKI HALEY BOWED TO
GROWING DEMANDS AFTER A GUNMAN
KILLED NINE PEOPLE AT A BLACK
CHURCH IN CHARLESTON.
THE SUSPECT, DYLANN ROOF, HAD
FEATURED THE FLAG IN PHOTOS OF
HIMSELF.
TODAY, HALEY WAS FLANKED BY
LEADERS FROM BOTH PARTIES, AS
SHE REVERSED HER PREVIOUS
OPPOSITION TO REMOVING THE FLAG.
>> CHARLES STOP HOPED HIS
ACTIONS WOULD START A RACE WAR.
WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW
THAT NOT ONLY WAS HE WRONG, BUT
THAT JUST THE OPPOSITE IS
HAPPENING.
MY HOPE IS THAT BY REMOVING THE
SYMBOL THAT DIVIDES US WE CAN
MOVE FORWARD IN THE STATE IN
HARMONY AND WE CAN HONOR THE
NINE BLESSED SOULS WHO ARE NOW
IN HEAVEN.
>> Ifill: RELIGIOUS AND
POLITICAL LEADERS PLAN TO RALLY
AT THE STATE CAPITOL TOMORROW,
TO PRESS FOR THE FLAG'S REMOVAL.
BUT THE "SONS OF CONFEDERATE
VETERANS" GROUP SAID IT WILL
OPPOSE THAT STEP.
MEANWHILE, PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL
DELIVER THE EULOGY AT FRIDAY'S
FUNERAL FOR EMMANUEL A.M.E.
CHURCH PASTOR AND STATE SENATOR
CLEMENTA PINCKEY, WHO WAS AMONG
THOSE MURDERED.
>> Woodruff: MARYLAND GOVERNOR
LARRY HOGAN ANNOUNCED TODAY HE
HAS CANCER OF THE LYMPH NODES.
HE SAID IT'S, QUOTE, "VERY
ADVANCED" AND "VERY AGGRESSIVE"
BUT HE PLANS TO CONTINUE IN
OFFICE WHILE UNDERGOING
CHEMOTHERAPY.
HOGAN IS A REPUBLICAN WHO TOOK
OFFICE IN JANUARY.
HE JOKED TODAY THAT HE STANDS A
BETTER CHANCE OF BEATING CANCER
THAN HE DID OF WINNING OFFICE IN
A HEAVILY DEMOCRATIC STATE.
>> Ifill: IN AFGHANISTAN, A
TALIBAN SUICIDE BOMBER AND SIX
GUNMEN ATTACKED THE PARLIAMENT
BUILDING IN KABUL.
NO LAWMAKERS WERE HURT, BUT 31
CIVILIANS WERE WOUNDED.
A MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT WAS
SPEAKING AS A LARGE EXPLOSION
RATTLED THE BUILDING, AND
LAWMAKERS RUSHED TO EXIT.
POLICE SAY THE ATTACKERS TRIED
TO STORM THE PLACE.
TO STORM THE PLACE. >> (
translated): A CAR FULL
OF
>> (translated): A CAR
FULL OF EXPLOSIVES HIT A WALL AT
THE
EXPLOSIVES HIT A WALL AT THE
EASTERN SIDE OF THE PARLIAMENT
AND MINISTRY OF FINANCE, THEIR
TARGET WAS TO ENTER TO THE
PARLIAMENT HOUSE, SIX ARMED MEN
WERE TRYING TO ENTER BUT ALL OF
THEM WERE KILLED BY THE SECURITY
FORCES.
>> Ifill: THE ATTACK CAME AS
TALIBAN FIGHTERS SEIZED A
DISTRICT IN NORTHERN
AFGHANISTAN, THE SECOND IN JUST
TWO DAYS.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. ARMY HAS
REPRIMANDED THE MAN WHO OVERSAW
THE TRAINING OF IRAQI FORCES.
MAJOR GENERAL DANA PITTARD COULD
ALSO BE DEMOTED.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTS HE
WAS ACCUSED OF STEERING A
DEFENSE CONTRACT TO A FIRM RUN
BY TWO OF HIS FORMER WEST POINT
CLASSMATES.
IT HAPPENED AT A TIME WHEN
PITTARD WAS COMMANDER IN CHARGE
AT FORT BLISS, TEXAS.
>> Ifill: THE EUROPEAN UNION
LAUNCHED A NAVAL OPERATION TODAY
AGAINST TRAFFICKERS WHO'VE BEEN
SMUGGLING MIGRANTS ACROSS THE
MEDITERRANEAN.
THE GOAL IS TO DESTROY THE
TRAFFICKERS' BOATS, BEFORE THEY
CAN BE USED.
MORE THAN 100,000 HAVE REACHED
EUROPE THIS YEAR, BUT HUNDREDS
MORE HAVE DIED.
>> Woodruff: UNITED NATIONS
INVESTIGATORS CONCLUDED TODAY
THAT BOTH ISRAEL AND THE
PALESTINIAN GROUP, HAMAS, MAY
HAVE COMMITTED WAR CRIMES DURING
LAST SUMMER'S WAR IN GAZA.
OVER 50 DAYS, ISRAEL AND HAMAS
TRADED THOUSANDS OF AIR STRIKES
AND ROCKETS.
MORE THAN 21,000 PALESTINIANS,
MOSTLY CIVILIANS, WERE KILLED.
ISRAELI DEAD INCLUDED 67
SOLDIERS AND SIX CIVILIANS.
U.N. OFFICIALS SAY BOTH SIDES
MUST ACCEPRESPT ONSIBILITY.
>> ACCOUNTABILITY SHOULD BE,
MUST BE, A KEY INGREDIENT IN
SUCH A PROCESS, AND WE MUST
REMEMBER THAT VICTIMS ARE NOT
JUST NUMBERS OR COLLATERAL
DAMAGE, THAT UNFORTUNATE WORD,
THEY ARE INDIVIDUAL PEOPLE WITH
HUMAN RIGHTS AND THEY A
FOR ANY VIOLATIONS OF THESE
RIGHTS.
>> Woodruff: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
BRANDED THE U.N. A BIASED
INSTITUTION AND REJECTED THE
REPORT.
HAMAS CALLED FOR PROSECUTING
ISRAELI LEADERS, BUT IGNORED
CRITICISM OF ITS OWN ACTIONS.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
THE SENATE MOVED TO CONFIRM A
LEADER FOR THE TRANSPORTATION
SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, THE
AGENCY THAT HANDLES AIRPORT
SECURITY.
COAST GUARD VICE ADMIRAL PETER
NEFFENGER HAS PROMISED TO CLOSE
SECURITY GAPS AT AIRPORTS, LAID
BARE BY AN INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION.
THE T.S.A. POST HAS BEEN VACANT
SINCE DECEMBER.
>> Woodruff: THE NUMBER OF
HAVE AGREED IN PRINCIPAL ON
REFORMS THAT THE RIKER'S ISLAND
JAIL COMPLEX.
A CLASS ACTION SUIT BY INJURED
INMATES HAD ALLEGED WIDE SPREAD
BRUTALITY BY GUARDS.
THE REFORMS WILL INCLUDE A
FEDERAL MONITOR AND THOUSANDS OF
VIDEO CAMERAS.
>> Ifill: THE NUMBER OF VETERANS
ENDURING LONG WAITS AT V.A.
HOSPITALS HAS JUMPED 50% FROM A
YEAR AGO.
THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS WAS HIT BY A SCANDAL
LAST YEAR OVER FALSE RECORDS AND
LONG WAIT TIMES.
A "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORT SAYS A
SURGE IN DEMAND SWAMPED EFFORTS
TO FIX THE PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: AND ON WALL STREET,
STOCKS GAINED ON HOPES FOR A
BREAKTHROUGH IN THE GREEK
BAILOUT TALKS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED MORE THAN 100 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 18,120.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 37 POINTS.
AND THE S-AND-P ADDED 13.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE POLITICS OF CONFEDERATE
FLAGS WITH TAMARA KEITH AND
SUSAN PAGE;
ROOTS OF RACIAL HATRED IN WAKE
OF THE MASS SHOOTING IN
CHARLESTON;
GREECE WAITS WITH BATED BREATH
FOR AN EMERGENCY ECONOMIC DEAL
OVER DEBT;
THE SUPREME COURT BOOSTS PRIVACY
AND PROPERTY RIGHTS IN TODAY'S
DECISIONS;
WHY GROWING CROPS IN WATER COULD
HELP FARMERS DURING A HISTORIC
DROUGHT;
AND, THE SECRET EXPERIMENTS OF
WORLD WAR TWO, TESTING NERVE
GASES ON TROOPS, BY RACE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, THE
CONFEDERATE FLAG AND THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE.
THE KILLINGS IN CHARLESTON
RETURNED THE REBEL BANNER TO THE
FOREFRONT IN SOUTH CAROLINA AND
TO THE 2016 AGENDA.
>> TAKE IT DOWN!
>> Woodruff: THOUSANDS GATHERED
ON THE GROUNDS OF THE SOUTH
CAROLINA STATEAPIT COL THIS
WEEKEND TO PROTEST THE CONTINUED
PRESENCE OF THE CONFEDERATE
BATTLE FLAG.
THE ISSUE'S ALSO ALIVE AGAIN FOR
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES, EIGHT MONTHS OUT
FROM THE SOUTH CAROLINA PRIMARY.
THIS WAS FORMER ARKANSAS
GOVERNOR MIKE HUCKABEE, SUNDAY,
ON N.B.C.
>> EVERYONE'S BEING BAITED WITH
THIS QUESTION AS IF SOMEHOW THAT
HAS ANYTHING TO DO WHATSOEVER
WITH RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT.
AND MY POSITION IS, IT MOST
CERTAINLY DOES NOT.
>> Woodruff: OVER ON A.B.C.,
FORMER PENNSYLVANIA SENATOR RICK
SANTORUM AGREED.
>> I DON'T THINK THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT OR FEDERAL CANDIDATES
SHOULD BE MAKING DECISIONS ON
EVERYTHING AND OPINING ON
EVERYTHING.
THIS IS A DECISION THAT NEEDS TO
BE MADE HERE IN SOUTH CAROLINA.
>> Woodruff: BUT TODAY, SOUTH
CAROLINA SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM
CALLED FOR THE FLAG'S REMOVAL.
AND ON SATURDAY, FORMER FLORIDA
GOVERNOR JEB BUSH SAID ON
FACEBOOK:
>> Woodruff: IN ADDITION, THE
PARTY'S 2012 NOMINEE, MITT
ROMNEY, TWEETED THAT:
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE, HILLARY
CLINTON TOOK ON THE BROADER
QUESTION OF RACISM IN AMERICA,
ON SATURDAY IN SAN FRANCISCO.
>> I KNOW THAT SO MANY OF US
HOPED THAT BY ELECTING OUR FIRST
BLACK PRESIDENT WE HAD TURNED
THE PAGE ON THIS CHAPTER IN OUR
HISTORY.
BUT DESPITE OUR BEST EFFORTS AND
OUR HIGHEST HOPES, AMERICA'S
LONG STRUGGLE WITH RACE IS FAR
FROM FINISHED.
>> Woodruff: CLINTON, WHO CAME
OUT IN 2007 FOR REMOVING THE
FLAG FROM THE SOUTH CAROLINA
STATE HOUSE GROUNDS IN 2007,
SAID MILLIONS OF PEOPLE OF COLOR
STILL EXPERIENCE RACISM DAILY.
TO TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT THIS
INTERSECTION OF POLITICS, RACE
AND HISTORY WE GO TO OUR
POLITICS MONDAY PANEL.
THIS WEEK, WE'RE JOINED BY SUSAN
PAGE OF USA TODAY AND TAMRA
KEITH OF N.P.R.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH BACK.
>> GOOD TO BE HERE.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS REVERSAL
BY GOVERNOR NICKY HALEY A
REPUBLIC GOVERNOR OF SOUTH
CAROLINA WHETHER THE FLAG SHOULD
BE DISPLAYED.
SUSAN IMAGINE WHAT'S THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THAT.
>> I THINK IT MEANS FOR SOUTH
CARE POLITICIANS, THERE'S BEEN A
TIPPING POINT WITH THIS TERRIBLE
TRAGEDY IN CHARLESTON.
YOU HAD THE GOVERNOR YOU HAD
BOTH SENATORS AND MEMBERS OF THE
HOUSE STANDING UP THERE SAYING
IT'S TIME FOR THE CONFEDERATE
FLAG TO COME DOWN WHERE IT
STANDS NEAR THE STATE CAPITOL
NOW.
YOU HEARD GOVERNOR HALEY BE I
THINK QUITE ELOQUENT IN BOTH
ADDRESSING 9 FEELINGS OF THOSE
WHO FEEL THAT THE FLAG IS AN
EXPRESSION OF THEIR HERITAGE AND
THEIR HISTORY NOT AN EXPRESSION
OF RACISM BUT MAKING THE
ARGUMENT THAT GIVEN WHAT IT
MEANS TO OTHERS AND GIVEN THE
WAY THE FLAG WAS BRANDISHED BY
THE GIRL IN CHARLESTON THAT IT
IS TIME FOR IT TO GO.
>> Woodruff: WAS THIS
INEVITABLE AFTER WHAT HAPPENED.
>> IT SALES LIKE THERE WAS A
CHORUS OF GROWING PEOPLE SAYING
THERE'S STILL THIS FLAG FLYING
ON THE STATE GROUNDS.
AND WHAT GOVERNOR HALEY SAID WAS
NO ONE IS GOING TO TELL YOU THAT
THIS FLAG IS IMPORTANT TO YOUR
HERITAGE THAT YOU HAVE TO STOP
FLYING IT AT YOUR HOUSE.
HOWEVER, SHE SAID IT HAS NO
PLACE ON STATE GROUNDS.
AND GIVEN EVERYONE SHE HAD
STANDING AROUND HER, IT SEEMS
LIKE IT JUST TIPPED.
AND THEN SORT OF THE FLOOD GATES
OPENED OF OTHER POLITICIANS,
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES, THE RNC
CHAIRMAN.
ALL OF THESE STATEMENTS COMING
OUT SAYING GOVERNOR HALEY MADE
THE RIGHT MOVE.
>> I WOULD JUST SAY TIT FOR
POLITICIANS AND THE POLL WE HAD
LAST NOVEMBER BY WINTER HAD 72%
OF WHITE VOTERS IN SOUTH
CAROLINA SUPPORTING THE FLAG.
AND YOU NEED TWO THIRDS VOTE OF
THE STATE LEGISLATURE TO
CONSIDER TAKING DOWN THE FLAG,
ANOTHER TWO THIRDS VOTE TO TAKE
IT DOWN.
SO WE AREN'T AT THE END OF THIS
DEBATE.
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE TWO
REPUBLICANS SENATOR JOINING THE
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR.
MITT ROMNEY MADE THE STATEMENT
RIGHT AFTER THE CHARLESTON
SHOOTING SUSAN SAYING HE THOUGHT
THE FLAG SHOULD COME DOWN.
TODAY AFTER THE GOVERNOR'S
ANNOUNCEMENT, DO WE EXPECT
THEY'RE ALL GOING TO END UP IN
THE SALE POSITION OR WHAT DO WE
THINK.
>> I THINK THEY'RE GOING TO
SUPPORT WHAT THE GOVERNOR SAID.
THAT'S AN EASY OUT FOR THEM
BECAUSE SOME OF THE REPUBLIC
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES ARE
BEING CAUTIOUS TO SAY THAT IS A
MATTER FOR THE STATE TO
CONSIDER.
REMEMBER THERE'S THAT BIG
PRIMARY IN SOUTH CAROLINA WHICH
MATTERS A LOT.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF
CAUTION UNTIL THE GOVERNOR STEPS
FORWARD AND NOW THEY ALL SEE A
PATH TO THIS ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: I THINK TAMRA I
READ OVER THE WEEKEND SCOTT
WALKER GOVERNOR OF WISCONSIN WAS
SAYING WE NEED TO WAIT AT LEAST
UNTIL THE VICTIMS OF CHARLESTON
SHOULD BE BURIED.
>> THERE'S THE DISCUSSION OF
STATES RIGHTS, PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES SHOULDN'T WEIGH IN ON
THIS, THIS IS UP TO THE STATE TO
DECIDE.
BY COMING OUT AND MAKING THE
STRONG STATEMENT, THE GOVERNOR
HAS SORT OF ALLOWED OTHERS TO
AGREE WITH HER, ESSENTIALLY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE LEDGER.
DEMOCRATS HAD TAKEN THE POSITION
THE FLAG SHOULD COME O WE HEARD
HILLARY CLINTON'S COMMENT ABOUT
RACE.
ARE THEY SAYING THINGS AMONG
BERNIE SANDERS, HILLARY CLINTON,
MARTIN O'MALLEY TO DISTINGUISH
THEMSELVES ABOUT RACE.
>> I THINK WHAT THEY'RE SEEING
WITH THE DEMOCRATS NOW AFTER
ABOUT EIGHT YEARS OF NOT WANTING
TO TAKE VERY MUCH ABOUT RACE
BECAUSE PRESIDENT OBAMA
DESCRIBED THE GROUND BREAKING
ELECTION IN 2008 HAS BEEN VERY
RELUCTANT TO ADDRESS RACE UNLESS
IT'S BEEN FORCED UPON HIM.
AND THAT'S CHANGED.
I THINK WE'VE SEEN THAT CHANGE
WITH SOME OF THE BLACK MEN AT
THE HANDS OF THE POLICE AND WE
DEFINITELY SAW IT IN THE WAKE OF
THIS CHARLESTON SHOOTING WHERE
HE'S INCREASINGLY TALKING ABOUT
THIS ISSUE AND SO IS MRS. OBAMA.
THAT OPENS THE DOOR TO THE KIND
OF DISCUSSION ABOUT RACE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
I DON'T THINK WE'VE REALLY SEEN
MAYBE FOREVER, CERTAINLY NOT FOR
A VERY LONG TIME.
>> Woodruff: IT'S STRIKING
ISN'T IT TAMRA.
>> TOMORROW ACTUALLY HILLARY
CLINTON WILL BE IN MISSOURI VERY
NEAR FERGUSON TALKING ABOUT
THESE VERY ISSUES AGAIN.
SHE'S GOING RIGHT TO THE HEART
WHERE THIS WAS LAST YEAR.
>> Woodruff: IT'S INTERESTING
THAT GUNS, THE PRESIDENT MADE A
COMMENT, TAMRA, RIGHT AFTER
CHARLESTON HAPPENED ABOUT GUNS
AND HE HOPED WASHINGTON WOULD
TAKE ANOTHER LOOK AT THAT.
WE HAVEN'T HEARD VERY MUCH ABOUT
THAT.
DO WE THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE
ANY MOVEMENT ON GUNS?
>> NO.
AND THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T EXPECT
THERE REALLY TO BE ANY MOVEMENT
ON GUNS.
HE SAID, YOU KNOW, IF THE SENATE
COULDN'T PASS BACKGROUND CHECK
LAST, BIPARTISAN BACKGROUND
CHECK LESS AFTER 20 KIDS WERE
KILLED IN NEW TOWN, WHAT IS
GOING TO CHANGE WITH THIS
SHOOTING.
THE PURE POLITICAL NUMBERS HAVE
CHANGED SO THE SENATE AND HOUSE
ARE BOTH CONTROLLED BY
REPUBLICS.
I WAS TALKING TO A LAW PROFESSOR
WHO STUDIED THE NATION'S GUN
LAWS AND HE SAID, IT MAKES SO
MUCH SENSE SO REALLY TOO AMERICA
WHEN IT COMES TO GUNS.
INITIAL REACTION WHEN DEMOCRATS
AND THE PRESIDENT SAY WE NEED
FEWER GUNS OR MORE GUN CONTROL.
THE INITIAL REACTION OF OTHER
HALF OF AMERICA WAS TO SAY WELL
WE NEED MORE GUNS TO PROTECT
PEOPLE, THERE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
GUNS IN THAT CHURCH.
WHEN THERE'S THAT DIVIDE, IT'S
REALLY HARD FOR PEOPLE TO LOOK
AT THIS TRAGEDY AND FIGURE OUT A
PATH FORWARD.
>> Woodruff: THAT SEEMS TO BE
THE REACTION SUSAN AFTER THE
SHOOTINGS.
IT HAPPENED AFTER NEW TOWN.
>> WHEN YOU POLL AMERICANS YOU
SEE SOME SUPPORT FOR GUN
MEASURES LIKE ENHANCED
BACKGROUND CHECKS.
WHAT'S REALLY HAPPENED IS THE
NATURE OF POLITICS PREVEBTS THAT
FROM HAPPENING DESPITE PUBLIC
SUPPORT FOR THEM.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK
ANYTHING'S GOING TO CHANGE AS A
RESULT OF THIS?
>> I DON'T SEE ANY WAY IT
CHANGES ON GUNS.
THERE'S A STRANGLE HOLD BY THE
NRA AND SOME OTHER GUN LOBBYISTS
THAT MAKES IT SEEMINGLY
IMPOSSIBLE TO REPORT EVEN IN THE
FACE, WE KNOW THE MAJORITY OF
GUN OWNERS SUPPORT ENHANCED
BACKGROUND CHECKS AND YET STILL
THIS CAN'T SEEM TO GET PASSED.
>> Woodruff: LESS THAN A
MINUTE BUT I WANT TO ASK YOU
BOTH QUICKLY.
THERE'S A NEW POLL 0U8, NBC,
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" SHOWING
GOOD NEWS FOR A COUPLE OF THE
REPUBLIC CANDIDATES, TAMRA, WHAT
DO YOU MAKE OF THAT.
>> IN PART THIS IS A POLL THAT
ASKS, COULD YOU SEE YOURSELF
VOTING FOR THIS PERSON.
FOR THE GOOD NEWS FOR JEB BUSH
IS THAT REPUBLICAN VOTERS COULD
SEE THEMSELVES VOTING FOR HIM.
IT'S PART POPULARITY, PART NAME
RECOGNITION, PART PALATABLITY.
>> Woodruff: IT'S SO SUSAN.
DOES SOMETHING LIKE THIS MATTER.
>> IT'S VERY INTERESTING.
SCOTT WALKER, BECAUSE HE WASN'T
FIRST IN TERMS OF COULD YOU SEE
YOURSELF VOTING FOR HIM.
BUT HE WAS THE LOWEST IF I COULD
NOT SEE MYSELF POSSIBLY VOTING
FOR HIM.
SO HE'S GOT THE MOST TO GROW.
A LOT OF REPUBLICS DON'T KNOW
ABOUT HIM YET.
I THOUGHT THAT WAS THE
INTERESTING FINDING IN THAT
SURVEY.
>> Woodruff: THERE WILL BE
MORE POLLS I HAVE A FEELING
BETWEEN NOW AND ELECTION.
SUSAN PANEL AND TAL RAW KEITH.
WHILE THE CONFEDERATE FLAG
CONTROVERSY THERE WAS ROOTS OF
THE CHARLESTON ATTACKS.
WERE THEY MOTIVATED BY RACIAL
ANIMUS OR INDIVIDUAL ALIENATION.
IN AN UNUSUALLY BLUNT
CONTRIBUTION TO THE DISCUSSION,
PRESIDENT OBAMA WEIGHED IN
FRIDAY DURING A PODCAST THAT WAS
POSTED ON-LINE TODAY.
IN THE INTERVIEW WITH COMEDIAN
MARK MARON, HE WAS ASKED TO
COMMON ON THE ROOTS OF RACISM.
AND IN MAKING HIS POINT,
EMPLOYED A RACIAL EPITHET.
WE ARE NOT EDITING THAT PORTION
OF THE PRESIDENT'S REMARKS.
>> IT IS INCONTROVERTIBLE THAT
RACE RELATIONS HAVE IMPROVED
DURING MY LIFETIME AND YOURS,
AND THAT OPPORTUNITIES HAVE
OPENED UP, AND THAT ATTITUDES
HAVE CHANGED.
THAT IS A FACT.
WHAT IS ALSO TRUE IS THAT THE
LEGACY OF SLAVERY, JIM CROW,
DISCRIMINATION IN EVERY
INSTITUTION IN OUR LIVES, THAT
CASTS A LONG SHADOW AND THAT IS
ILL PART OF OUR DNA.
THAT'S PASSED ON.
WE'RE NOT CURED OF IT, RACISM.
WE ARE NOT CURED OF IT.
AND IT'S NOT JUST A MATTER OF IT
NOT BEING POLITE TO SAY NIGGER
IN PUBLIC AS A MEASURE OF
WHETHER RACISM STILL EXISTS OR
NOT.
IT'S NOT JUST A MATTER OF OVERT
DISCRIMINATION.
SOCIETIES DON'T OVERNIGHT ERASE
EVERYTHING THAT'S HAPPENED 200
TO 300 YEARS PRIOR.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT'S
COMMENTS SPURRED A LIVELY ONLINE
DEBATE THAT RANGED FROM CAUSE TO
EFFECT.
AMONG THE QUESTIONS BEING ASKED:
WAS THIS ATTACK A FORM OF
DOMESTIC TERRORISM?
FOR OUR DISCUSSION, I'M JOINED
BY GREGG MCCRARY, A FORMER
F.B.I. PROFILER WHO HAS
SPECIALIZED IN TRACKING AND
UNDERSTANDING VIOLENT PREDATORS.
PAUL BUTLER, A PROFESSOR OF LAW
AT GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY WHO
TEACHES ABOUT RACE RELATIONS.
AND RICHARD COHEN, PRESIDENT OF
THE SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER.
RICHARD COHEN, WHAT IS YOUR TAKE
ON THE QUESTION OF DOMESTIC
TERRORISM, ESPECIALLY IN THIS
PARTICULAR CASE IN CHARLESTON.
>> I THINK IT'S A CASE OF
DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
IT'S POLITICAL VIOLENCE BY
NON-STATE ACTOR AIMED AT
INTIMIDATING A LARGE GROUP OF
PEOPLE.
IT'S THE CLASSIC DEFINITION.
ALSO I THINK THE TECHNICAL
DEFINITION UNDER FEDERAL LAW.
I THINK IT'S A PRETTY CLEAR CASE
OF DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR BUTLER
WHAT IS YOUR SENSE NOT IN THIS
CASE BUT IN GENERAL.
>> IT WAS SURREAL TO HERE
GOVERNOR HALEY ANNOUNCE TODAY
THE CIVIL WAR ENDED 150 YEARS
AGO LIKE THAT WAS BREAKING NEWS.
I'M NOT SURE SHE'S RIGHT.
WHAT HAPPENED IN CHARLESTON IS A
SPED UP VERSION OF THE KIND OF
VIOLENCE THAT AFRICAN AMERICANS
HAVE
EXPERIENCED FOR 400 YEARS.
WE CAN TALK ABOUT SLAVERY AND
THE LYNCHINGS THAT HAPPENED
AFTER SLAVINGS OR THE UNARMED
AFRICAN AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO GET
KILLED BY POLICE OFFICERS.
THE TERRORIST SAID HE WANTED TO
START A RACE WAR TOWARD ALL
AFRICAN AMERICANS.
IT FEELS LIKE WE'VE BEEN IN A
RACE WAR FOR THE LAST 400 YEARS.
>> Ifill: YOU SPENT A LOT OF
TIME TESTIFYING AS AN EXPERT
WITNESS IN THESE TYPE OF CASES.
IN THIS PARTICULAR CASE, DO YOU
THINK IT'S ABOUT ALIENATION OR
ABOUT RACE?
>> IT'S BOTH.
I THINK THESE INDIVIDUALS, AND I
THINK ETCETERA GOING TO PLAY OUT
WHEN WE FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THIS
INDIVIDUAL FEEL ALIENATED.
THEY BECOME PARANOID.
THEY HAVE A SENSE OF IDENTITY
CONFUSION.
THEY'RE NOT SURE WHO THEY ARE OR
WHAT'S GOING ON.
THAT MAKES THEM VULNERABLE TO
EXTREMIST IDEAS.
THAT SWORD OF CALL DRUNK THEY
LATCH ON TO THESE SORT OF
THINGS.
THEY ARE UNDER ACHIEVERS, DON'T
FORM WELL RELATIONS WITH OTHER
PEOPLE.
THAT DRIVES THEM TO THE
INTERNET.
WHEN THEY TURN THERE, THEY CAN
FIND SUPPORT FOR THESE EXTREME
BELIEFS THAT THEY HAVE AND THAT
REINFORCES THIS.
THEN EVENTUALLY IT TURNS TO
VIOLENCE.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE INTERNET PORTION ABOUT THIS
RICHARD COHEN BECAUSE ONE OF THE
THINGS YOU TALK ABOUT AT YOUR
SITE IS WHITE GENOCIDE.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN WHAT YOU MEAN BY
THAT.
>> THERE'S THIS IDEA IN THE
WHITE SUPREMIST WORLD THAT WHITE
PEOPLE AND
THEY LOOK AT SOUTH AFRICA, THEY
LOOK AT THE FORMER OUTLAW STATE
OF RODESIA.
THEY LOOK AT THE CHANGING
DEMOGRAPHICS OF OUR COUNTRY AND
THEY COME TO THE SAME
CONCLUSION.
THERE'S A GENOCIDE AGAINST WHITE
PEOPLE AFOOT.
LET HAD HE SAY SOMETHING THAT I
THINK IS IMPORTANT TO KNOW.
IN A MILDER FORM THIS IS
SOMETHING ONE SEES IN A BROADER
SEGMENT OF AMERICAN SOCIETY.
AND WHAT I MEAN BY THAT IS,
WHITE PEOPLE TODAY ARE MORE
LIKELY TO THINK THAT THEY ARE
THE VICTIMS OF DISCRIMINATION
THAN ARE BLACK PEOPLE IN OUR
COUNTRY.
THEY TEND TO SEE RACISM OR RACE
RELATIONS AS A ZERO SUM GAIN.
THE ROOTS ARE AN EXTRAORDINARY
EXTREME CASE OF THIS WHITE
RACIAL RESENTIMENT.
BUT THERE'S A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF
THIS SIMMERING IN SOCIETY AT
LARGE I'M AFRAID.
>> Ifill: PAUL BUTLER.
>> THAT'S THE CONNECTION BETWEEN
WHAT HAPPENED IN CHARLESTON AND
WHAT HAPPENED IN FERGUSON.
AND THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE FOR
AFRICAN AMERICANS RIGHT NOW IS
10%.
AND WE THINK THAT THE ECONOMY IS
DOING FINE.
IF YOU'RE BLACK AND YOU SEND OUT
A RESUME, YOU GET HALF AS MANY
CALL BACKS, SAME RESUME FOR A
WHITE PERSON.
IF YOU'RE BLACK YOU DON'T EVEN
GET THE SAME KIND OF HEALTHCARE.
IF YOU TRY TO GET AN APARTMENT,
YOU DON'T GET THE APARTMENT EVEN
IF YOU HAVE THE SAME
QUALIFICATIONS AS A WHITE
PERSON.
SO ALL OF THAT STRUCTURAL
VIOLENCE, ALL OF THAT STRUCTURAL
STUFF IS A FORM OF VIOLENCE AS
WELL.
>> Ifill: GREGG MCCRARY, YOU
JUST HEARD RICHARD COHEN TALK
ABOUT THE EXCEL RUNS OF THE
INTERNET.
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAW ALSO, THESE
GROUPS DRIFTED ON SOME LEVEL BUT
THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT BEING
ABLE TO SHARE THEM QUICKLY.
WE KNOW THAT THE SHOOTER, THE
ALLEGED SHOOTER IN CHARLESTON
HAD A LOT OF CONNECTIONS
ON-LINE.
>> YES.
THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
IN OTHER WORDS, PAUL WAS TALKING
ABOUT THE REALITY OF WHAT'S
GOING ON.
FOR INDIVIDUALS LIKE THIS, THE
PERCEPTION OF WHAT THEY HAVE IS
ENTIRELY DIFFERENT THAN THE
REALITY, THE RESHARE.
HIS REALITY IS THIS IDEA OF
WHITE GENOCIDE OR HE MADE THAT
COMMENT JUST BEFORE THE SHOOTING
THAT BLACK PEOPLE ARE RAPING AND
MURDERING AND SO FORTH.
SO THAT'S THE PERCEPTION THAT
THIS DELUSIONAL PARANOID BELIEF
SYSTEM THAT THESE PEOPLE HAD.
>> Ifill: WHO ARE THESE
PEOPLE.
WHO ARE SUSCEPTIBLE FOR THIS
KIND OF BELIEF SYSTEM.
>> IT CAN BE ANYONE.
IT CAN BE POLITICAL, IT CAN BAY
RELIGIOUS OR VERY IDIOSYNCRATIC.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
VULNERABLE, THEY DON'T TYPICALLY
INTEGRATE IN SEWED, THEY SEND TO
BE LOSERS, UNEMPLOYED, LIKE THIS
GUY WITH A 10TH GRADE EDUCATION,
DOESN'T BELONG TO SOCIETY AND
GOES SEARCHING FOR LIKE MINDED
VIOLENT INDIVIDUALS WHO THE
FALLS THE FILE, FUELS THE
ANIMUS.
IN CASES LIKE THIS IT PROPELS
THEM TO ACTUALLY ACT OUT IN A
VERY PREDATORY MANNER.
>> Ifill: RICHARD COHEN, IS
THERE A STRAIN, ARE THERE SIGNS
WE SHOULD BE LOOKING FOR TO ROOT
SOMETHING LIKE THIS OUT.
IT'S ONE THING TO SAY THIS IS A
TERRIBLE THING TO SAY BUT
ANOTHER THING IS TO SEE IT
COMING.
WE PUT DRONES IN THE CRY.
WHAT DO WE DO FOR THE BEST OF
TERRORISM.
>> I THINK IT'S A VERY TOUGH
QUESTION, GWEN.
IT'S HARDER TO PREVENT BUT THERE
ARE SOME PRACTICAL THINGS WE CAN
DO.
THE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS
WOULD SAYxD SEE SOMETHING, SAY
SOMETHING.
BE ALERT TO THE SIGNS.
THERE ARE A LOT OF SIGNS THAT
THIS KID MIGHT HAVE BEEN A FEW
BUBBLES OFF PLUMB.
OUR SCHOOLS HAVE AN IMPORTANT
ROLE TO PLAY.
OUR POLITICAL FIGURES, IF WE CAN
TAMP DOWN SOME OF THE HORRIBLY
POLARIZING RHETORIC, MAYBE WE
HAVE A CALMING EFFECT.
WE ALL HAVE A ROLE TO PLAY AND
WE KNOW IT'S NOT EASY.
>> Ifill: INVARIABLY, PAUL,
AFTER THESE CASES THERE'S A CALL
FOR CONVERSATIONS, THESE
CONVERSATIONS.
SHOULDHE TCONVERSATION ABOUT
RACE OR SHOULD IT BE ABOUT
RACISM.
>> IT SHOULD BE ABOUT RACISM AND
WHITE SUPREMACY.
WE HAVE TO DISRUPT THIS RUSH TO
A KUMBIYAH MOMENT.
THEY CHANTED ALL LIVES MATTER.
THAT WAS A CORRUPTION OF BLACK
LIVES MATTER.
IT WAS A WILLFUL BLINDNESS TO
TALK ABOUT RACISM AND WHITE
SUPREMACY.
AND IT'S PART OF THE PROBLEM.
ALL LIVES, HE WENT AFTER AFRICAN
AMERICANS AND WE NEED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT.
>> JUST TO REINFORCE WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AS FAR AS
IDENTIFICATION.
ALMOST ALWAYS THERE'S SOME
LEAKAGE OF THESE INDIVIDUALS
LEAK INTENT.
IT COULD BE ON-LINE.
NOW WE'VE SEEN HE'S GOT THIS
MANIFESTO.
>> Ifill: HE TOLD SOME OF HIS
FRIENDS.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE TALKED ABOUT
EARLIER, SEE SOMETHING SAY
SOMETHING.
THAT'S THE RIGHT IDEA.
SOMETIMES THE PEOPLE THEY
DISCLOSE THIS TO ARE LIKE MINDED
INDIVIDUALS AND THEY FEEL THEY
CAN TRUST THEM SO IT DOESN'T
COME OUT.
OTHER TIMES PEOPLE JUST
DISBELIEVE THEY'RE REALLY GOING
BUT THAT'S THE KEY.
IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE EARLY
INTERVENTION AND STOP THIS,
PEOPLE HEAR THIS, WE SEE THIS
LEAKAGE, THEY NEED TO COME
FORWARD WITH THIS AND WE CAN
PERHAPS GET SOME INTERVENTION TO
PREVENT THIS.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO ASK EACH
OF YOU TO RESPOND SOMETHING THE
PRESIDENT SAID IN THAT INTERVIEW
IN THE MUD -- MUD CAST TODAY.
ABOUT RACE MANY IS A LONG SHOULD
OWE STILL PART OF OUR DNA.
RICHARD COHEN IS IT PART OF OUR
DNA.
>> IT'S PART OF THE ORIGINAL SIN
OF THIS COUNTRY.
IT'S LIKE THE BIG BANG OF THE
AMERICAN UNIVERSE THAT REVERB
RATES THROUGH EVERYTHING.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THE PRESIDENT
IS ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
RACE RELATIONS ARE SO DIFFERENT
THAN THEY WERE 50 YEARS AGO BUT
IT'S A CLICHE BUT IT'S TRUE.
WE HAVE AN ENORMOUSLY FAR WAY TO
GO.
>> Ifill: THAT SEEMS AWFULLY,
THE PRESIDENT ALSO SAID, WE'VE
COME A LONG WAY.
I GUESS IT'S A MATTER OF
EMPHASIS.
>> WELL I MEAN I THINK IT ALSO
IS A MATTER OF TIME FRAMES,
RIGHT.
I'M 60 YEARS OLD.
I'VE SEEN A LOT OF CHANGE IN MY
PERIOD OF TIME.
IF YOU'RE 30 YEARS OLD MAYBE THE
WORLD SEEMS VERY VERY STAGNANT.
I THINK THERE'S THAT ELEMENT AS
WELL.
>> Ifill: PAUL BUTLER.
>> RACIAL SUBORDINATION IS THE
PREMISE OF THE AMERICAN PROJECT.
THE CAPITOL AND THE WHITEHOUSE
WERE BUILT WITH SLAVE LABOR.
EVERYTHING THAT WHITE PEOPLE
HAVE THEY HAVE IN PART BECAUSE
THEY ARE WHITE.
WE HAVE TO DISRUPT THAT STATUS
QUO.
THAT'S WHAT THE PRESIDENT MEANT
WHEN HE SAID RASMCI IS PART OF
OUR DNA.
OUR DNA HAS GOT TO BE CHANGED.
>> Ifill: GREGG MCCRARY.
>> YES, I DO BELIEVE IT'S PART
OF THE CULTURAL DNA THAT WE ALL
SHARE.
AND IT IS POISON, IT IS TOXIC.
IT OBVIOUSLY NEEDS TO BE
CHANGED.
THE MORE WE DEAL WITH THIS
OPENLY AND HAVE THIS SORT OF
DISCUSSION, MOVE IT ALONG AT
LEAST INCREMENTALLY I HOPE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S WHAT WRE
WORKING AT HERE.
PROFESSOR PAUL BUTLER OF
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY, GREGG
MCCRARY A FORMER FBI PROFILER
AND RICHARD COHEN THE PRESIDENT
OF THE SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW
CENTER THANK YOU ALL FOR
CONTRIBUTING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AN EMERGENCY
MEETING ON THE GREEK DEBT CRISIS
FELL SHORT OF AGREEMENT TODAY.
BUT THE CHAIR OF THE EUROZONE
FINANCE MINISTERS' MEETINGS SAID
A DEAL COULD COME LATER THIS
WEEK, AND THAT THE GROUP IS
USING NEW PROPOSALS BY GREEK
PRESIDENT ALEXIS TSIPRAS, WHICH
INCLUDE SPENDING CUTS AND
REFORMS, AS A BASIS FOR FURTHER
TALKS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM
BRABANT REPORTS FROM ATHENS,
WHERE RESIDENTS WORRY AS A JUNE
30TH DEADLINE DRAWS CLOSER.
>> ReerGS,
THOUSANDS OF DEMONSTRATORS
GATHERED OUTSIDE PARLIAMENT TO
INSIST THAT THE COUNTRY MUST
REMAIN WITHIN THE EURO ZONE.
THEY'RE AFRAID THAT BANKRUPTCY
AND DEPARTURE FROM THE COMMON
CURRENCY WILL SPELL DISASTER FOR
GREECE.
AND IT APPEARS TONIGHT THAT THEY
WILL HAVE A REPRIEVE, AS THE
LATEST PROPOSALS PUT FORWARD BY
THE RADICAL PRIME MINISTER
ALEXIS TSIPRIAS, GO SOME WAY
TOWARDS MEETING THE CREDITORS
DEMANDS.
IT WILL MEAN HIGHER TAXES FOR
THE RICH, SOME EXTRA SALES
TAXES, BUT HE'S REPORTEDLY
REFUSING TO CUT PENSIONS.
TWENTY FOUR HOURS EARLIER THE
MESSAGE COMING FROM THIS PLACE
WAS TOTALLY DIFFERENT.
AS THE HEAT WAS BEING TURNED UP
ON GREECE, SUPPORTERS OF THE
LEFT WING SYRIZA GOVERNMENT TOOK
OVER THE GROUNDS OF PARLIAMENT
TO URGE PRIME MINISTER TSIPRAS
NOT TO SURRENDER TO THE
CREDITORS.
>> Reporter: THE HOURLY CHANGING
OF THE GUARD AT THE TOMB OF THE
UNKNOWN SOLDIER WAS CHAOTIC AS
DEMONSTRATORS CHANTED THAT THE
COUNTRY WAS NOT FOR SALE.
GREECE HAS A GLORIOUS HISTORY OF
RESISTANCE, AND ALSO OF PAINFUL
DEFEAT.
WITH THE COUNTRY ON THE BRINK OF
BANKRUPTCY, FORMER BANK WORKER,
ETEOKLES POLITOPOULOS URGED THE
GOVERNMENT NOT TO ALTER COURSE.
POLITIPOULOS HAS BEEN UNEMPLOYED
FOR 18 MONTHS AFTER RESIGNING
BECAUSE HE COULDN'T BEAR WORKING
FOR A BANK.
>> WHAT ARE THE RISKS?
WE DON'T KNOW.
BUT I WANT TO STAND FOR THE
PEOPLE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT MAKES ANY
MEANING.
NOT FOR THE BANKS.
BUT THAT'S WHAT I WANT.
>> Reporter: VETERAN ACTRESS
LYDIA LENOSSI, IS FAMOUS FOR HER
PERFORMANCES ON STAGE, FILM AND
TELEVISION.
BUT IF SHE WANTS TO PURSUE HER
CRAFT THESE DAYS, SHE KNOWS SHE
HAS TO DO IT FOR FREE.
HER SIGN SAYS NO GIVING IN TO
BLACKMAIL.
>> WHEN I TELL YOU THAT WE DON'T
GET PAID, HOW CAN I EXPLAIN HOW
DIFFICULT IT IS?
IT IS VERY DIFFICULT.
IN GREECE WE CANNOT LIVE ANY
MORE.
THEY WANT US TO DIE.
THEY WANT TO EXTINGUISH GREECE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SAY NO.
THAT'S IT FIVE YEARS.
TWELVE THOUSAND SUICIDES.
>> Reporter: TODAY DAWNED WITH
STORM CLOUDS, AS A SERIES OF
RUCICAL MEETINGS LOOMED, WITH
THE EUROPEAN UNION DETERMINED TO
FORCE CONCESSIO FRONSM GREECE.
ALTHOUGH MORE THAN A BILLION
DOLLARS A DAY WAS BEING
WITHDRAWN FROM BANKS LAST WEEK,
THE CASH MACHINES WERE STILL
WORKING, AND FEARS THAT THE
BANKMIGHS T BE CLOSED FOR
BUSINESS FAILED TO MATERIALIZE.
CONSERVATIVE POLITICIAN ANNA
ASIMAKOPOULOU IS RELIEVED THAT
THE SYRIZA GOVERNMENT APPEARS TO
HAVE COME UP WITH A DEAL THAT
MAY FEND OFF BANKRUPTCY, BUT SHE
DOESN'T LIKE THE DETAILS.
>> EVERYTHING WE HEAR IS TAXES
TAXES AND TAXES, AND THAT'S
CLEARLY NOT GOING TO BRING
GROWTH.
SO THAT'S OUR MAJOR OBJECTION TO
THE CONTENTS OF THE DEAL.
BUT HAVING SAID THAT A DEAL IS
CLEARLY MUCH BETTER THAN NO
DEAL.
AND UNFORTUNATELY MR TSIPRAS HAS
BROUGHT US TO THIS HORRIBLE
SITUAON.TI
>> Reporter: GREEK AMERICAN
INVESTMENT ADVISOR PHILLIP
AMMERMAN IS DOUBTFUL WHETHER THE
EXTRA TAXES OFFERED TO CREDITORS
PROMISED IN THE DEAL WILL
MATERIALIZE.
>> I WOULD SAY I THINK IT'S
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.
IT'S BEEN DANGEROUS FOR THE PAST
TWO MONTHS, THERE'S BEEN A HUGE
LACK OF TRUST ON EITHER SIDE,
THIS IS PROBABLY MERITED FROM
EITHER SIDE FROM HOW THE
NEGOTIATIONS HAVE PROCEEDED.
THERE IS ALSO A LOT OF
MISINFORMATION.
THAT A DEAL WILL BE FINALIZED
THAT WILL ENABLE GREECE ON THE
NEXT OF 8 BILLION DOLLARS FROM
THE BAILOUT FUND.
THE GOVERNMENT HERE CERTAINLY
BELIEVES THAT THE COUNTRY HAS
BEEN SAVED.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE EUROPEAN
COMMISSION HAS GOT SOMExD
PROPOSALS FROM GREECE THAT HE
LIKES.
HE LIKE MANY OTHERS WANTS TO SEE
AN END TO THIS HIGH STAGES GAME
OF POKER.
BUT THEY TOOK OUT $2 BILLION
FROM THE BANK AND THEY'RE
RUNNING OUT OF CASH AND THE
EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK NEEDS TO
PUT MORE LIQUIDITY INTO THE
BANKING SYSTEM TO MAKE SURE THEY
CAN OPEN TOMORROW AND THE
COUNTRY DOESN'T PANIC.
PBS NEWSHOUR, THIS IS MALCOLM
BRABANT IN ATHENS.
>> Ifill: THE SUPREME COURT
ISSUED A SET OF RULINGS TODAY
WITH A UNIFYING THEME
RESTRICTING GOVERNMENT POWER AND
BOOSTING INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS.
BOTH CASES HAPPENED IN
CALIFORNIA IN ONE, A LOS ANGELES
HOTEL OWNER QUESTIONED A CITY
LAW REQUIRING HIM TO TURN GUEST
LISTS OVER TO POLICE.
200 MILES NORTH, IN FRESNO,
ANOTHER CASE TESTED WHETHER THE
GOVERNMENT COULD SEIZE SOME OF A
FARMER'S RAISIN CROP IN ORDER TO
CONTROL PRICES.
JOINING ME TO DISCUSS THESE
OPINIONS OUT TODAY IS OUR
REGULAR HIGH COURT CONTRIBUTOR,
MARCIA COYLE FROM THE NATIONAL
LAW JOURNAL.
THERE ARE A LOT OF THING OUT OF
THE COURT AT THE END OF JUNE,
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, THIS WAS
REALLY KIND OF INTERESTING.
BOTH OF THESE CASES WERE A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT GOVERNMENT
RESTRAINT.
LET'S START BY TALKING ABOUT THE
CALIFORNIA RAISIN BOARD.
>> OKAY.
THE RAISIN ADMINISTRATIVE
>> REALLY IN THIS PARTICULAR
CASE, IT'S A FAMILY FARM, THE
HORNS, WHO AS YOU SAID GROW
RAISINS IN CALIFORNIA.
THEY PARTICIPATED IN WHAT IS A
VOLUNTEER PROGRAM FOR 30 YEARS.
BUT IN EARLY 2000 FOR TWO YEARS
THEY DECIDED NOT TO TURN OVER
THEIR RAISINS TO THE
ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE.
THE UNITED STATES BROUGHT AN
ENFORCEMENT ACTION AGAINST THEM
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T COMPLYING
WITH THE ORDER IMPOSED PENALTY
OF ALMOST HALF A MILLION DOLLARS
FOR THOSE TWO YEARS.
THEY CHALLENGED THE RAISIN
PROGRAM SAYING THAT IT VIOLATED
THE FIFTH AMENDMENT TAKE,
CLAUSE.
AS YOU KNOW, GWEN, THE FIFTH
AMENDMENT TAKING CLAUSE REQUIRES
THE GOVERNMENT TO PAY JUST
COMPENSATION WHEN IT TAKES
PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR A PUBLIC
PURPOSE.
THE LOWER FEDERAL COURT HEARING
THE HORNS' CASE, THESE ARE THE
GROWERS SAY PERSONAL PROPERTY
RECEIVES LESS PROTECTION UNDER
THE CLAUSE THAN REAL PROPERTY.
AND THE SUPREME COURT TODAY IN
AN 8-1 DECISION WRITTEN BY THE
CHIEF JUSTICE SAID NO.
HE SAID THAT THE FIFTH AMENDMENT
APPLIES TO PERSONAL PROPERTY AS
WELL AS REAL PROPERTY.
THE GOVERNMENT TAKES YOUR CAR
IT'S GOING TO APPLY, IF THE
GOVERNMENT TAKES YOUR HOME IT'S
GOING TO APPLY.
>> Ifill: THE SECOND CASE IS
MORE ABOUT SOCIAL SEIZURE BUT
THIS IS ABOUT AN ORDINANT IN LOS
ANGELES ABOUT HOTELS TAKING YOUR
NAME AND ADMINISTERING GUESTS
AND POLICE CAN COME A LOOK AT
THEM AT ANY TIME.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE TALKS ABOUT HOTEL GUEST
REGISTRIES AND THEN SAID THAT
HAD TO BE MADE ACCESSIBLE TO LAW
ENFORCEMENT WHEN IT WANTED TO
LOOK AT THE REGISTRIES.
THE CITY CLAIMED THAT SOME
MOTELS AND HOTELS WERE USED FOR
DRUG TRAFFICKING, HUMAN
TRAFFICKING AND PROSTITUTION
WHICH WAS A WAY FOR THE POLICE
TO TRY TO KEEP TRACK OF THIS AND
CLAMP DOWN ON IT.
THE ORDINANCE WAS CHALLENGED BY
A GROUP OF MOTEL OWNERS WHO SAID
THAT THIS VIOLATED THE 4TH
AMENDMENT WHICH PROTECTS US FROM
UNREASONABLE SEARCHES AND
SEIZURES.
TODAY THE COURT IN A DECISION BY
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR AGREED WITH
THE HOTEL OWNERS.
SHE SAID THAT IT WAS AN
UNREASONABLE SEARCH TO HAVE THE
POLICE HAVE FULL ACCESS WHENEVER
THEY WANTED.
BECAUSE THERE WAS NO
PRECOMPLIANCE REVIEW PROCESS.
SO IF AN OWNER OBJECTED, HE
COULD GO TO A NEUTRAL THIRD
PARTY.
HE OR SHE COULD GO TO A THIRD
NEUTRAL PARTY AND MAKE THE CASE.
SHE SAID THIS WASN'T
PARTICULARLY BURDENSOME ON LAW
ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE THEY COULD
STILL GET SOMETHING CALLED AN
ADMINISTRATIVE SUBPOENA TO LOOK
AT THE REGISTRY.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER WAY.
>> RIGHT.
IT DOESN'T REQUIRE A PROBABLE
CAUSE LIKE A WARRANT DOES.
>> Ifill: DOESN'T IT MEANS TO
YOU, THE COURT RULED AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT, THE GOVERNMENT REACH
IN
IN IN BOTH OF THESE CASES.
>> YES.
IT'S CURBING WHAT LAW
ENFORCEMENT CAN DO.
ALSO JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR AND THE
MAJORITY DIDN'T FEEL THAT WAS A
BIG BURDEN FOR THEM.
JUSTICE SCALIA WROTE DESENT AND
SAID HOTELS AND MOTELS WERE
CLOSELY REGULATED INDUSTRIES
WHICH THE COURT SAID ARE REALLY
AN EXCEPTION TO THE 4TH
AMENDMENT.
AND HE FELT THAT THE SEARCHES
HERE WOULD BE COMPLETELY
REASONABLE BECAUSE OF THE
HISTORY OF MODALS WAS BEING
HAVEN FOR PROSTITUTION DRUG
TRAFFICKING.
>> Ifill: WE'LL WAIT FOR THE
OTHER BIG SHOE TO DROP LATER
THIS WEEK PERHAPS MARCIA.
>> THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, GWEN
IFILL I'LL THANKS A LOT.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: AN ANCIENT FARMING
TECHNIQUE THAT USES FAR LESS
WATER THAN TRADITIONAL
AGRICULTURE IS GETTING NEW
ATTENTION AROUND THE COUNTRY,
ESPECIALLY IN THE DROUGHT
STRICKEN WEST.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE HAS OUR
REPORT.
>> Reporter: IN A GREENHOUSE
NESTLED IN A VALLEY NEAR HALF
MOON BAY CALIFORNIA, FARMER KEN
ARMSTRONG IS TENDING TO HIS
HERD.
SOME 3,000 FISH WHO ARE KEY
MEMBERS OF A COMPLEX ECOSYSTEM
THAT ALSO INCLUDES SOME HELPFUL
BACTERIA, AND THESE FLOATING
LEAFY GREENS.
THERE'S NOT A SPECK OF SOIL TO
BE SEEN HERE AT OUROBOROS FARMS
WHERE ARMSTRONG AND HIS
COLLEAGUES ARE GROWING PRODUCE
WITH AN AGRICULTURAL SYSTEM
KNOWN AS AQUAPONICS.
>> THE FISH ARE THE INTEGRAL
PART OF THE SYSTEM.
THEY PROVIDE THE NUTRIENTS FOR
THE SYSTEM, SO WE FEED OUR FISH
AN ORGANIC FISH FEED.
SO THIS BECOMES THE NUTRIENT
BASE FOR ALL OF OUR PLANTS.
THE FOOD THAT THE FISH EAT
BECOMES USEABLE NITROGEN BY THE
PLANTS.
SO THE FISH ARE ACTUALLY THE
ENGINE OF GROWTH.
THIS IS WHERE THE MAGIC HAPPENS.
>> Reporter: IN OTHER WORDS, THE
FISH WASTE BECOMES FOOD FOR THE
PLANTS, AND THE PLANTS IN TURN
CLEAN THE WATER FOR THE FISH.
ITS A DELICATELY BALANCED SYSTEM
THAT REQUIRES SOME BASIC SCIENCE
TO MASTER.
>> I HAD TO DO A LOT OF
RESEARCH, AND THERE WAS A LITTLE
BIT OF TRIAL AND ERROR, WE LOST
A FEW BATCHES OF FISH BEFORE WE
FINALLY JUST FIGURED OUT HOW THE
WHOLE SYSTEM WORKED WELL.
>> Reporter: ARMSTRONG ISN'T THE
FIRST FARMER TO TRY AQUAPONICS.
ITS METHOD THAT'S BEEN AROUND
FOR A REALLY LONG TIME.
ITS BELIEVED THE AZTECS AND
ANCIENT CULTURES IN PARTS OF
ASIA USED WILD FISH TO FERTILIZE
THEIR CROPS.
TODAY, AQUAPONICS IS BEING USED
IN A NUMBER OF COTRIEUNS FROM
MYANMAR, TO PERU, TO GERMANY.
EVEN ON ROOFTOPS IN GAZA.
IN THE U.S., A SMALL NUMBER OF
BACKYARD HOBBYISTS HAVE BEEN
TINKERING WITH THE SYSTEM FOR
YEARS.
BUT UNTIL RECENTLY, IT HASN'T
BEEN TRIED ON A LARGE-SCALE
COMMERCIAL BASIS.
NOW, THE TEAM AT OUROBOROS
FARMS, AND A HANDFUL OF OTHER
OPERATIONS AROUND THE COUNTRY,
ARE GIVING IT A GO.
>> THIS IS LIKE A CONVEYOR BELT
OF PRODUCE.
>> Reporter: JESSICA PATTONS
OFFICIAL TITLE ON THE FARM IS
PLANT WHISPERER.
SHE HARVESTS 2,000 HEADS OF
LETTUCE A WEEK, WHICH SELL FOR
ABOUT $3.00 EACH, ROUGHLY THE
SAME COST AS AN ORGANIC HEAD OF
LETTUCE.
SHE SAYS THE PLANTS HERE GROW
ABOUT A THIRD FASTER THAN IF
THEY WERE GROWN IN SOIL.
>> IN TRADITIONAL FARMING
METHODS THE PLANT EXPENDS A LOT
OF ENERGY SENDING OUT A TAP ROOT
AND TRYING TO FIND NUTRIENTS.
WE HAVE A CONSTANT NUTRIENT
SYSTEM UNDER THE PLANTS SO WHAT
HAPPENS IS THE PLANTS CAN EXPEND
THEIR ENERGY GROWING INSTEAD OF
SENDING OUT ENERGY IN A ROOT
MASS.
>> Reporter: FASTER PLANT GROWTH
IS ONE BENEFITS OF AQUAPONICS,
BUT THE OTHER BIG ONE IS WATER
USAGE, A CRITICAL ISSUE IN
DROUGHT STRICKEN CALIFORNIA
WHERE A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF THE
STATES DEVELOPED WATER GOES TO
AGRICULTURE.
SOME IN THE AQUAPONICS INDUSTRY
CLAIM THEIR SYSTEMS USE ABOUT
90% LESS WATER THAN TRADITIONAL
SOIL FARMING.
>> THERE'S ALMOST NO EVAPORATION
IN THESE SYSTEMS, THE ONLY USAGE
OF WATER COMES THROUGH
TRANSPIRATION, WHAT THE PLANTS
ACTUALLY UTILIZE.
COMPARING TO SOIL AGRICULTURE,
PLANTS CAN ONLY TAKE UP WATER
THROUGH THE TIPS OF THEIR ROOTS,
SO YOU NEED TO SOAK THE TOP
LAYER OF SOIL IN ORDER FOR THE
WATER TO GET DOWN TO WHERE THE
PLANT CAN ACTUALLY USE IT.
THAT TOP LAYER OF TOPSOIL, ALL
THAT WATER JUST EVAPORATES.
OVERHEAD SPRAYING A LOT OF THE
>> Reporter: THE 60,000 GALLONS
OF WATER AT OUROBOROS HAVE BEEN
CIRCULATING FOR A YEAR.
WEEKLY TOP-OFFS ARE NEEDED, BUT
THE OVERALL WATER SAVINGS FOR
EACH PLANT GROWN IS SIGNIFICANT.
FOR EXAMPLE, ARMSTRONG SAYS A
MATURE HEAD OF LETTUCE IN HIS
OPERATION USES ABOUT A GALLON OF
WATER OVER ITS SIX WEEK GROWTH
CYCLE, FAR LESS THAN A SIMILAR
HEAD OF LETTUCE GROWN IN SOIL.
BUT FOR ALL ITS BENEFITS,
AQUAPONICS DOES HAVE ITS
LIMITATIONS.
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE
ECONOMICALLY TO GROW CERTAIN
STAPLE FOODS LIKE WHEAT AND CORN
GIVEN THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE
SYSTEM.
AND A BIG DRAWBACK IS COST.
ARMSTRONG, WHO IS INDEPENDENTLY
WEALTHY, SPENT A QUARTER OF A
MILLION DOLLARS TO BUILD THE
SYSTEM.
IN MARCH, AFTER THREE YEARS IN
OPERATION, HE FINALLY BEGAN TO
MAKE A PROFIT.
BUT HE THINKS IT WILL BE ANOTHER
THREE YEARS BEFORE HELL MAKE HIS
MONEY BACK.
>> WE ARE A LONG WAY OFF FROM
AQUAPONICS TAKING THE PLACE OF
TRADITIONAL AGRICULTURE.
>> Reporter: FRED CONTE FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT
DAVIS, ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S TOP
AGRICULTURAL SCHOOLS, STUDIES
AQUAPONICS.
HE SAYS THE DROUGHT HAS PIQUED
INTEREST IN THE TECHNIQUE, BUT
IT REMAINS A VERY SMALL, NICHE
WAY TO GROW PRODUCE.
>> SCALING UP THAT SYSTEM IS THE
DIFFICULT PART.
ONCE YOU GET BEYOND ABOUT AN
ACRE OF PRODUCTION, THEN IT
MOVES OUT FROM THE FAMILY TYPE
OPERATION.
YOU'RE HIRING MORE AND MORE
PEOPLE AND COSTS GO UP, AND ITS
RIGHT NOW, ITS A HIGH-END
BUSINESS, ALL THE WAY FROM THE
PRODUCTION OF THE OPERATION INTO
THE CONSUMPTION OF THE
VEGETABLES AS WELL.
>> Reporter: A HIGH-END BUSINESS
WITH A TESLA DELIVERY VEHICLE,
ARMSTRONG HAND-DELIVERS MOST OF
THE FARM'S WEEKLY ORDERS TO A
SMALL NUMBER OF UPSCALE BAY AREA
RESTAURANTS.
>> HEY CHRIS, HEY KEN, HOW'S IT
GOING BUDDY?
>> Reporter: ONE OF HIS TOP
CUSTOMERS IS CHRISTOPHER AQUINO,
EXECUTIVE CHEF OF VIOGNIER
RESTAURANT IN THE CITY OF SAN
MATEO.
>> OH THESE ARE AWESOME.
THE SMALLER THE BETTER.
LIKE THAT'S THE SIZE WE WANT.
>> Reporter: AQUINO SAYS THE
SUPERIOR QUALITY OF THE LEAFY
GREENS HE GETS FROM OUROBORUS IS
ONLY ONE REASON HE BUYS FROM
THEM.
>> THE REASON WHY WE'VE GONE
WITH KEN IS HIS WATER USAGE IS
SIGNIFICANTLY LESS THAN MOST
OTHER FARMS.
I CAN BE CONSCIOUS ABOUT MY
WATER USAGE, NOT SO MUCH ABOUT
HOW MUCH WATER IS GOING DOWN MY
DRAINS, BUT HOW MUCH WATER ARE
MY FARMERS USING?
>> Reporter: ARMSTRONG SAYS NOW
THAT HIS FARM IS UP AND RUNNING,
HE INTENDS TO SPREAD KNOWLEDGE
ABOUT AQUAPONICS AROUND THE
COUNTRY.
>> I HONESTLY BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS THE FUTURE OF FARMING.
YOU CAN DO THEM ANYWHERE, YOU
CAN DO THEM INDOORS, OUTDOORS,
IN WAREHOUSES, ON ROOFTOPS,
EMPTY ALLEYWAYS, EMPTY PARKING
LOTS, SO ALL THE SPACE THAT'S
BEING UNDERUTILIZED IN URBAN
AREAS COULD BE TRANSFORMED
EASILY INTO AN AQUAPONICS
SYSTEM.
>> Reporter: LATER THIS SUMMER,
OUROBOROS FARMS WILL HOST A
FOUR-DAY WORKSHOP FOR THOSE
INTERESTED IN STARTING
COMMERCIAL AQUAPONICS
OPERATIONS.
SEVERAL HUNDRED ARE EXPECTED
ATTEND.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, IM CAT
WISE IN HALF MOON BAY,
CALIFORNIA.
>> Woodruff: IT WAS A PAINFUL,
HORRIFYING AND SECRET PART OF
AMERICA'S HISTORY DURING WORLD
WAR II.
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT CONDUCTED
EXPERIMENTS WITH MUSTARD GAS AND
OTHER CHEMICALS ON SOME U.S.
TROOPS AT THE TIME.
THAT CHAPTER OF HISTORY WAS
FIRST REVEALED IN THE EARLY
NINETIES.
NOW, A NEW INVESTIGATION BY
N.P.R. FINDS THE MILITARY USED
RACE-BASED EXPERIMENTS AS PART
OF THOSE TESTS.
AFRICAN AMERICAN MEN, AS WELL AS
JAPANESE-AMERICAN AND PUERTO
RICAN SOLDIERS WERE SINGLED OUT.
THESE PICTURES SHOW THE FOREARMS
OF MEN EXPOSED TO MUSTARD GAS
AND OTHER AGENTS.
SOME, LIKE ROLLINS EDWARDS, ARE
LIVING WITH THE EFFECTS DECADES
LATER, INCLUDING INJURIES TO
THEIR SKIN.
CAITLIN DICKERSON LED N.P.R.'s
INVESTIGATION.
SUSAN SMITH IS A PROFESSOR OF
HISTORY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
ALBERTA, CANADA WHO HAS STUDIED
AND WRITTEN EXTENSIVELY ABOUT
THIS.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING WITH
US.
CAITLIN DICKERSON, YOU FIRST.
HOW DID YOU HEAR ABOUT ALL THIS?
WHAT LED YOU TO THE STORY.
>> SO TO EXPLAIN THAT JUDY, I
HAVE TO START BY TELLING YOU
THAT THESE TESTS WERE PART OF A
MUCH LARGER BODY OF EXPERIMENTS
THAT THE U.S. MILITARY CONDUCTED
DURING WORLD WAR II INVOLVING
AROUND 60,000 ENLISTED MEN.
I WAS LOOKING INTO THE VETERANS
ADMINISTRATION WHO IN THE 1990'S
WHEN THOSE TESTS WERE FIRST
EXPOSED, PROMISED TO PROVIDE
DISABILITY BENEFITS TO VETERANS
WHO SUSTAINED PERMANENT INJURE
IN THOSE TESTS.
THAT WILL AIR LATER THIS WEEK WE
STARTED TO COME ACROSS THE NAMES
OF STUDIES THAT REALLY STOOD OUT
TO US.
LIKE COMPARISON OF FIRST
GENERATION JAPANESE AMERICANS,
WHITE SOLDIER, CHAIRSON THE WAY
NEGRO TO WHITE SOLDIER WHEN
EXPOSED TO MUSTARD GAS.
THOSE WERE THE FIRST THREADS OF
EVIDENCE OF THESE EXPERIMENTS WE
FOUND, STARTED PULLING ON THOSE
AND THEN WE CAME ACROSS USING
THE WORK SUBMITTING REQUESTS TO
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FOR ORIGINAL
DOCUMENTS.
THAT'S WHERE IT ALL STARTED.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN SMITH, YOU
HAD BEEN DOING WORK LOOKING INTO
THIS.
HOW EXTENSIVE WERE THESE TESTS
USING MUSTARD GAS AND OTHER
CHEMICAL AGENTS.
>> CERTAINLY THERE WAS A LOT OF
MEDICAL RESEARCH ON CHEMICAL
WEAPONS FOR WORLD WAR II.
AND THE MUSTARD GAS EXPERIMENTS
IN PARTICULAR AS CAITLIN
MENTIONED, SOME 60,000 AMERICAN
SOLDIERS WERE USED IN
EXPERIMENTS.
BUT I WAS QUITE STRUCK BY THE
NINE RACE-BASED EXPERIMENTS THAT
I LOCATED.
THERE'S AT LEAST NINE.
THERE COULD HAVE BEEN MORE, BUT
IN THE PUBLISHED SCIENTIFIC
RECORDS, I FOUND EXPERIMENTS ON
JAPANESE AMERICANS, AFRICAN
AMERICANS AND PORT RECANES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WAS THE
EFFECT OF THESE, PERIMENTS.
WE SHOULD SOME OF THOSE
PHOTOGRAPHS BUT WHAT DO THESE
EXPERIMENTS DO TO THESE MEN.
>> SURE.
MUSTARD GAS IT REACTS WITH HUMAN
DNA RIGHT AWAY CANNOT SECONDS OF
MAKING CONTACT AND CAUSES
IRREVERSIBLE DAMAGE.
FREQUENTLY YOU'LL SEE THINGS
LIKE CHRONIC SKIN PROBLEMS
INCLUDING SKIN CONNERS THAT
NEVER GOES AWAY.
ROLLINS EDWARDS STILL HAS THICK
SCRABZ THAT HE SCRATCHES UNTIL
THEY BLEEDS.
IT AFFECT THE AIRWAYS SO YOU CAN
GET COPD, ASTHMA.
ALL KINDS OF VERY SERIOUS AND
SOMETIMES LIFE THREATENING
ILLNESSES.
>> Woodruff: HE'S WELL INTO
HIS 90'S RIGHT.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
THE VETERANS I WAS ABLE TO TALK
TO FOR THESE STORIES ARE OF
COURSE AN EXCEPTIONAL GROUP
HAVING FAR OUTLIVED THEIR LIFE
EXPECTANCY AND HAVING GONE
THROUGH THIS.
WE CAN ASSUME THERE ARE MANY
MORE WHO AREN'T AROUND TO TELL
US THEIR STORIES TODAY.
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR SMITH,
WHY WAS THE GOVERNMENT DOING
THIS?
WHAT WERE THEY TRYING TO FIND
OUT?
>> WELL, THE FIRST WORLD WAR HAD
BEEN A CHEMICAL WAR AND THERE
WAS EVERY EXPECTATION THAT THIS
SECOND WORLD WAR WOULD BE ONE AS
WELL.
SO THE ALLIED GOVERNMENTS,
CANADA, THE UNITED STATES, GREAT
BRITAIN, AUSTRALIA, ALL PREPARED
FOR A CHEMICAL WAR.
THIS IS ALSO AL TRUE OF THE JAE
AND NAZIS.
SO CHEMICAL WAS EVERYONE'S
EXPECTATION AND THE SCIENTISTS
WERE INVOLVED IN HELPING WITH
THAT RESEARCH.
>> Woodruff: BUT WHY DID THEY
CHOOSE A NUMBER OF AFRICAN
AMERICAN MEN, JAPANESEAMERICAN
MEN, PUERTO RICANS AND SO FORTH?
>> THIS IS REALLY AN IMPORTANT
QUESTION ABOUT HOW RACE MATTERS
IN THE WORLD OF SCIENCE.
THE EXPECTATION WAS THAT RACIAL
DIFFERENCES WOULD PROVE TO PLAY
OUT NOT JUST FOR DISEASE BUT FOR
TOXIC EXPOSURES OF MUSTARD GAS.
SO THE SCIENTISTS THEMSELVES HAD
ASSUMPTIONS THAT RACIAL GROUPS
MIGHT BE VARIABLE.
AND THE EXPECTATION WAS THAT
WHITE SOLDIERS WOULD HAVE ONE
KIND OF RESPONSE, BUT AFRICAN
AMERICANS MIGHT BE MORE
RESISTENT.
JAPANESE AMERICANS AS WELL.
AND PORT PUERTO RICANS TOO.
THAT THERE ARE DIFFERENCES THEY
COULD IDENTIFY.
>> Woodruff: CAITLIN
DICKERSON WHAT DID THEY FIND
OUT.
>> THERE WAS REPORTS THAT DOES
SIGZ AMERICAN SCIENTISTS
CONTINUED TO THINK THAT AFRICAN
AMERICANS WERE MORE RESISTANT.
BASE.
>> Woodruff: BASED ON WHAT
THEY FOUND.
>> BASED ON WHAT THEY FOUND.
WE SHOWED THOSE RESULTS TO
MEDICAL EXPERTS BUT IT'S HARD TO
SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THE VASTITY
OF THE NUMBERS BECAUSE WE JUST
WEREN'T THERE AND WE KNOW THE
STANDARDS ABOUT EX
PERIMENTATIONS ON HUMANS WERE
NOT AT THE LEVEL THEY ARE TODAY.
SO THEY DO SUGGEST THAT AT THE
TIME THEY THOUGHT AFRICAN
AMERICANS WERE MORE RESISTENT.
BUT RIGHT AFTER THAT THEY SORT
OF FOLLOW UP AND SAID THAT DO
YOU KNOW WHAT, THERE'S A LOT OF
VARIATIONS AMONG THESE GROUPS
MAYBE MORE SO THAN BETWEEN THEM.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN JUST TO
UNDERLINE.
THESE MEN WENT WILLINGLY, IS
THAT RIGHT?
ALL OF THE PEOPLE WHO
PARTICIPATED.
>> THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY THE
CASE AND I'M GLAD YOU BROUGHT
THAT UP BECAUSE IT'S IMPORTANT.
WHEN WE LOOK AT ALL OF THE
REPORTS SURROUNDING MUST TURD
GAS IT REFERS TO VOLUNTEERS.
BUT WE KNOW EVEN FROM A
GOVERNMENT STUDY THAT WAS
CONDUCTED BACK IN THE 1990'S
WHEN THE FIRST SETS OF
EXPERIMENTS WERE EXPOSED, WE
KNOW THE TERM VOLUNTEER ISN'T
NECESSARILY ACCURATE.
BUT IN SOME CASES, MEN WERE
ASKED TO VOLUNTEER BUT THEY
WEREN'T TOLD WHAT THEY WERE
VOLUNTEERING FOR AND THEY WERE
OFFERED INCENTIVES LIKE A
LOCATION OR AN AWARD.
THE MEN THAT WE INTERVIEWED FOR
THIS STORY ABOUT RACE-BASE THE
EXPERIMENTS, THEY SAY THEY WERE
NOT VOLUNTEERS.
THE MILITARY DID NOT ASK THEM,
THEY TOLD THEM.
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR SMITH,
ARE THERE OTHER EXPERIMENTS THAT
WERE DONE AT THAT TIME THAT HAD
YET TO BE MADE PUBLIC?
>> WELL CERTAINLY FROM THE
1940'S THROUGH THE 1970'S, THERE
WERE MANY TYPES OF SCIENTIFIC
EXPERIMENTS ON HUMAN BEINGS.
DESPITE THE NUMBER COMING OUT IN
1947, THE ROLE OF HUMAN
EXPERIMENTATION IN MEDICAL AND
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH WAS VERY
IMPORTANT AS A TOOL FOR
SCIENTISTS.
WHAT IS INTERESTING HERE IS THAT
WE KNOW ABOUT RADIATION
EXPERIMENTS.
WE KNOW ABOUT TOXIC EXPOSURES OF
AGENT ORANGE LATER IN THE
VIETNAM WAR.
BUT THIS IS THE WORLD WAR II
STORY THAT WE DON'T KNOW AS MUCH
ABOUT.
PARTLY BECAUSE WE DON'T REMEMBER
THAT IT WAS PREPARATION FOR A
CHEMICAL WAR.
>> Woodruff: IT'S JUST A
STRIKING SET OF FINDINGS AND
REMARKABLE RESEARCH, PROFESSOR
SMITH, AND REMARKABLE REPORTING.
CAITLIN DICKERSON, WE THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: A POST SCRIPTED.
THE
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNMENT
ACKNOWLEDGED THE EXPERIMENTS AND
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT TOLD
N.P.R. THAT IT NO LONGER TESTS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ON TROOPS.
A SPOKESMAN SAID THE EXPERIMENTS
WERE "UNFATHOMABLE."
SOME MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ARE
CALLING FOR APOLOGIES AND A
SETTLEMENT.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE A NEWS
UPDATE LATE THIS EVENING.
THE PENTAGON SAYS AN AMERICAN
AIR STRIKE IN IRAQ KILLED AN
ISLAMIC STATE OPERATIVE LINKED
TO THE 2012 BENGHAZI, LIBYA,
ATTACK ON A U.S. COMPOUND.
ALI AW'NI AL-HARZI WAS KILLED IN
AN AIR STRIKE CONDUCTED ON JUNE
15.
HE WAS A "PERSON OF INTEREST" IN
THE BENGHAZI ATTACK, WHICH
KILLED THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO
LIBYA, AND THREE OTHER
AMERICANS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, EVEN AS MORE STATES ARE
CUTTING THEIR BUDGETS FOR
COLLEGE AID, MORE OF THAT AID IS
GOING TO STUDENTS FROM HIGHER
INCOME FAMILIES.
SEE WHAT'S BEHIND THIS SHIFT, WE
HAVE THE STORY FROM OUR PARTNERS
AT THE HECHINGER REPORT, ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT A
DIFFERENT CRISIS IN GREECE.
HOW A FLOOD OF MIGRANTS
HAVE OVER TAKEN AN ISLAND.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.